---
icon: material/text-box-outline
---

# KC7

**Difficulty**: :fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-solid-star::fontawesome-regular-star::fontawesome-regular-star:<br/>

## Objective

!!! question "Request"
    Investigate a phishing attack targeting Wombley's team, uncovering espionage activities.
    Track and analyze the impacts of a ransomware attack initiated by Wombley's faction.
    Use logs to trace an unknown phishing attack targeting Alabaster's faction.


??? quote "Pepper Minstix"
    This is weird, I got some intel about an imminent attack.

    Pepper Minstix here! I've got urgent news from neutral ground.

    The North Pole is facing a serious cyber threat, and it's putting all the factions on edge. The culprits? Some troublemakers from Team Wombley.

    They've launched a barrage of phishing attacks, ransomware, and even some sneaky espionage, causing quite the stir.

    It's time to jump into action and get cracking on this investigation—there's plenty of cyber-sleuthing to do.

    You'll be digging into KQL logs, tracking down phishing schemes, and tracing compromised accounts like a seasoned pro.

    Malware infections have already breached Alabaster Snowball's systems, so we need swift action.

    Your top mission: neutralize these threats, with a focus on the ransomware wreaking havoc from Team Wombley.

    It's a hefty challenge, but I know you're up to it. We need your expertise to restore order and keep the peace.

    You've got the tools, the skills, and the know-how—let's show Team Wombley we mean business.

    Ready to dive in? Let's defend the North Pole and bring back the holiday harmony!

## Solution

### KQL 101

1. Type let's do this into the answer (not the run table)
2. Run 
    ```
    Employees
    | take 10
    ``` to see that we have hire_date, name, user_agent, ip_addr, email_addr, username, role, hostname, mfa_enabled and company_domain.
    Then type `when in doubt take 10` into the answer box
3. Run the provided command to see there are 90 employees. (Preview may get an answer quicker)
4. We can find the toy maker's name by running:
    ```
    Employees
    | where role == 'Chief Toy Maker'
	```
	*Shinny Upatree*
5.  Just type `operator`
6. Run
    ```
    Employees
    | where name contains “Angel Candysalt”
    ``` 
    to find out her email is angel_candysalt@santaworkshopgeeseislands.org. 
    We can then use this to get the count:
    ```
    Email
    | where recipient == "angel_candysalt@santaworkshopgeeseislands.org"
    | count
    ``` = *31*
7. Run
    ```
    Email
    | where sender has "twinkle_frostington@santaworkshopgeeseislands.org"
    | distinct recipient
    | count
    ``` = *32* 
    I'm not sure why it says <insert domain name here>. We don't want all distinct 
    recipients of santaworkshopgeeseislands.org so it should be recipient.

8. First, get IP address using:
`Employees | where name == “Twinkle Frostington”` (with the answer 10.10.0.36)
Next, use this to get the distinct count with:
`OutboundNetworkEvents | where src_ip == "10.10.0.36" | distinct  url | count`
Fortunately he didn't visit multiple different paths (or they aren't all tracked) = *4*

9. For this, we can run:
`PassiveDns | where domain contains "green" | distinct  domain | count` = *10*

10. For this one, note that new lines between queries will cause errors:
```
let twinkle_ips = Employees
| where name has "Twinkle"
| distinct ip_addr;
OutboundNetworkEvents 
| where src_ip in (twinkle_ips) 
| distinct url
| count
```
= *8*

!!! success "8"
    Submit this to your badge for the achievement.
    
### Operation Surrender: Alabaster's Espionage

1. Type *surrender*
2. `Email | where subject contains "surrender"` shows *surrender@northpolemail.com*
3. Add to the last query:
```
Email | where subject contains "surrender"
| distinct recipient | count
```
shows *22*. 
Bonus: A total of 27 were sent; who got multiples? Using | summarize Count=count() by recipient` shows starla_peppermintz got 3 (due to FW / RE)
4. `SecurityAlerts | where description contains "surrender"` = *Team_Wombley_Surrender.doc*
5. Simply fill in the template:
```
Employees
| join kind=inner (
   OutboundNetworkEvents
) on $left.ip_addr == $right.src_ip // condition to match rows
| where url contains "Team_Wombley_Surrender.doc"
| project name, ip_addr, url, timestamp // project returns only the information you select
| sort by timestamp asc //sorts time ascending
``` 
= *Joyelle Tinseltoe*
6. The timestamp was 2024-11-27T14:11:45Z, so:
```
let hname = Employees | where name == "Joyelle Tinseltoe" | distinct hostname;
ProcessEvents | where timestamp between(datetime("2024-11-27T14:11:45Z") .. datetime("2024-11-27T14:12:45Z")) | where hostname in (hname)
```
= *keylogger.exe*
7. Set flag to `keylogger.exe` and run the code to get `a2V5bG9nZ2VyLmV4ZQ==`

!!! success "a2V5bG9nZ2VyLmV4ZQ=="
    Submit this to your badge for the achievement

### Operation Snowfall: Team Wombley's Ransomware Raid

1. *Snowfall*
2. Just run the provided command to get *59.171.58.12*
3. `AuthenticationEvents | where src_ip == '59.171.58.12' and result == "Successful Login" | distinct username | count` = *23*
4. `AuthenticationEvents | where src_ip == '59.171.58.12' and result == "Successful Login" | distinct description` shows it's using *RDP*
5. We should start this by getting the timestamp with:
```
let hname= Employees | where name contains "Alabaster" | distinct hostname;
AuthenticationEvents | where hostname in (hname) and src_ip == '59.171.58.12' and result  == "Successful Login"
```
This gives us a time of 2024-12-11T01:39:50Z
We can then use it to filter the process events:
`ProcessEvents | where hostname in (hname) and timestamp between (datetime('2024-12-11T01:39:50Z') .. datetime('2025-12-12T01:39:50Z')) | sort by timestamp asc`
Looking through the events, we can see lots of moving files around and then an event that copies to wocube:
`copy C:\Users\alsnowball\AppData\Local\Temp\Secret_Files.zip \\wocube\share\alsnowball\Secret_Files.zip`
*Secret_Files.zip*
6. Looking at the same results we found earlier, we can see the answer is *EncryptEverything.exe*
7. `RW5jcnlwdEV2ZXJ5dGhpbmcuZXhl`

!!! success "RW5jcnlwdEV2ZXJ5dGhpbmcuZXhl"
    Submit this to your badge for the achievement.

### Echoes in the Frost: Tracking the Unknown Threat
1. *Stay Frosty*
2. `Email | where recipient contains "noel" and subject contains "breach"| sort by timestamp asc`
*2024-12-12T14:48:55Z*
3. Using the URL found in previous result
`OutboundNetworkEvents | where url == "https://holidaybargainhunt.io/published/files/files/echo.exe"`
*2024-12-12T15:13:55Z*
4. `PassiveDns | where domain contains "holidaybargainhunt"`
*182.56.23.122*
5. `AuthenticationEvents | where src_ip == "182.56.23.122" | distinct hostname`
*WebApp-ElvesWorkshop*
6. `ProcessEvents | where hostname == "WebApp-ElvesWorkshop" | distinct process_commandline`
I found this a little unclear which part of the command to specify, but apparently it should just be
the powershell name: *Invoke-Mimikatz.ps1*
7. We need the hostname first:
```
let hname = Employees | where name == "Noel Boetie" | distinct hostname;
ProcessEvents | where  hostname in (hname) and timestamp between (datetime("2024-12-12T15:13:55Z") .. datetime("2025-12-12T15:13:55Z"))
```
*2024-12-12T15:14:38Z*
8. `OutboundNetworkEvents | where url contains "holidaycandy.hta"`
*compromisedchristmastoys.com*
9. In the results from question 7, we can see the directory was zipped up and then the following command was run:
`New-Item -Path "HKCU:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" -Name "MS SQL Writer" -Force | New-ItemProperty -Name "frosty" -Value "C:\Windows\Tasks\sqlwriter.exe" -PropertyType String -Force`
*sqlwriter.exe*
10. This question is just asking about the `-Name` parameter, so *frosty*
11. ZnJvc3R5

!!! success "ZnJvc3R5"
    Submit this to your badge for the achievement

## Response

!!! quote "Pepper Minstix"
    Outstanding work! You've expertly sifted through the chaos of the KQL logs and uncovered crucial evidence. We're one step closer to saving the North Pole!

    Bravo! You've traced those phishing emails back to their devious source. Your sharp detective skills are keeping our elves safe from harm!

    Fantastic! You've tracked down the compromised accounts and put a stop to the malicious activity. Our systems are stronger thanks to you!

    Incredible! You've neutralized the ransomware and restored order across the North Pole. Peace has returned, and it's all thanks to your relentless determination!

    Ho-ho-holy snowflakes! You've done it! With the precision of a candy cane craftsman and the bravery of a reindeer on a foggy night, you've conquered all four tasks! You're a true holiday hero!
